# Paper Summary
## “A High Throughput Methods for Identifying Novel Genes that Influence Metabolic Pathways Reveals New Iron and Heme Regulation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa” Gainesville et al. 

Glansville et al. attempted to create a new approach to identify genes and pathways involved in a metabolic process. The authors’ new approach involved metabolite-coupled transposon sequencing, and make use of three established technologies. Specifically, the approach, named ‘Met-Seq’, combines the use of biosensors, fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS), next-generation sequencing (NGS) techniques. In order to verify this new approach worked as intended, they used the gram-negative bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa as a model organism and tried to identify genes involved in the heme uptake and metabolism pathways. First the authors make a heme biosensor that utilizes phytochrome light receptor proteins. Next, they used an existing, previously characterized methods called FAST-INseq, TraDISort, and Persister-FACSSeq in sequence to provide the identification of many genes affecting the levels of heme. Figure 1A from the text is an apt summary of the Met-Seq technique. These processes together with FACS enrichment make up the new method for specific metabolite affecting gene identification, Met-Seq. After three rounds of FACS enrichment, they identified 188 genes using the Met-Seq technique involved with heme. Of these 188 genes, a majority were not previously thought to be involved in the heme metabolism pathways of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 


